README.md, before:

# AoC2022

this year I am going to try to have fun. :)

## Calendar

[reverse lookup](#reverse-lookup) (by language / method)

[Day 1](#day-1)
| [Day 2](#day-2)
| [Day 3](#day-3)
| [Day 4](#day-4)
| [Day 5](#day-5)

[Day 6](#day-6)
| [Day 7](#day-7)
| [Day 8](#day-8)
| [Day 9](#day-9)
| [Day 10](#day-10)

[Day 11](#day-11)
| [Day 12](#day-12)
| [Day 13](#day-13)
| [Day 14](#day-14)
| [Day 15](#day-15)

[Day 16](#day-16)
| [Day 17](#day-17)
| [Day 18](#day-18)
| [Day 19](#day-19)
| [Day 20](#day-20)

[Day 21](#day-21)
| [Day 22](#day-22)
| [Day 23](#day-23)
| [Day 24](#day-24)
| [Day 25](#day-25)

# Solutions

## Day 1

python with some arithmetic in brainfuck

[python code](/day01.py)

[brainfuck "sum chunks" for part 1](/day01_part1_sum_chunks.b)

[brainfuck "add 3 numbers"...](/day01_part2_sum3.b)

## Day 2

by hand in google docs/calculator

![part 1 ctrl-f for X, Y, Z, A X etc](/day02_part1.png)
![part 2 ctrl-f for A X, A Y, etc](/day02_part2.png)

## Day 3

### 3-1

in godot: pass the left half and right half of the background through each other, increasing the score whenever a collision happens. make a big explosion upon collision to remove duplicates

[godot project](/day03_part1/)

![part 1: lots of black boxes with letters, long orange rectangles and a score counter](/day03_part1_screenshot.png)

### 3-2

in python, code golfed to 95 bytes (loads a file called "3" in the same directory; there's a setup batch script to copy that from the inputs folder)

[python file](/day03_part2/day03_part2_95bytes.py)

## Day 4

### 4-1

work in progress: python + brainfuck

## Day 5

todo

## Day 6

by hand with pen + paper

![part 1: dots under the first many letters, column count and calculations on the side](/day06_part1.jpg)

![part 2: messy lines under letters in the middle, incorrect + correct calculations on the side](/day06_part2.jpg)

## Day 7

python (writing to/querying the filesystem, of course; only tested on windows)

[python code](/day07.py)

## Day 8

wip...

## Day 9

in (the rather nice, I think?) [noulith](https://github.com/betaveros/noulith) language by betaveros, the Advent of Code (current) #1 ranked user. [their webpage](https://beta.vero.site/) / [their github](https://github.com/betaveros/)

[part 1](/day09_part1.noul)

[part 2](/day09_part2.noul) which does act as a generalization of part 1, but also has slightly less clean code

## Day 10

in python and very boring, although at least I define sensible classes? [python code](/day10.py)

## Day 12

by hand with pen + paper

![day 12: areas to avoid blocked off, path highlighted, various tickmarks for counting the path length](/day12.jpg)

the right/finish section is navigating up a spiral of all letters, and I did this first, to get to d/e -- there is only one d/e area you can get to. I did this first, and it tells you where you have to aim for. the left/start section is just navagating a sea of c's; you can never drop into an a-hole because there are no b's to get back out. the route is super simple once you block off all the a's (ignore the part where I made a mistake...).

## Day 13

just plain python. trying to make it look easy since python *almost* solves this question out of the box, just not quite... [python code](/day13.py)

# Reverse Lookup

days by language / method / etc

## godot

- [day 3 part 1](#3-1)

## python + brainfuck

- [day 1](#day-1)
- [day 4 part 1](#4-1)

## python (gode colfed)

- [day 3 part 2](#3-2) 95 bytes

## just python...

- [day 7](#day-7) (+ filesystem!)
- [day 10](#day-10)
- [day 13](#day-13)

## noulith

this is the language [noulith](https://github.com/betaveros/noulith) written by betaveros, the Advent of Code (current) #1 ranked user. [their webpage](https://beta.vero.site/) / [their github](https://github.com/betaveros/)

- [day 9](#day-9)

## minimal computer assistance

- [day 2](#day-2) in google docs
- [day 6](#day-6) by hand with pen + paper

Commit message:

day12 in readme: add note about off-by-two error

README.md, after:

# AoC2022

this year I am going to try to have fun. :)

## Calendar

[reverse lookup](#reverse-lookup) (by language / method)

[Day 1](#day-1)
| [Day 2](#day-2)
| [Day 3](#day-3)
| [Day 4](#day-4)
| [Day 5](#day-5)

[Day 6](#day-6)
| [Day 7](#day-7)
| [Day 8](#day-8)
| [Day 9](#day-9)
| [Day 10](#day-10)

[Day 11](#day-11)
| [Day 12](#day-12)
| [Day 13](#day-13)
| [Day 14](#day-14)
| [Day 15](#day-15)

[Day 16](#day-16)
| [Day 17](#day-17)
| [Day 18](#day-18)
| [Day 19](#day-19)
| [Day 20](#day-20)

[Day 21](#day-21)
| [Day 22](#day-22)
| [Day 23](#day-23)
| [Day 24](#day-24)
| [Day 25](#day-25)

# Solutions

## Day 1

python with some arithmetic in brainfuck

[python code](/day01.py)

[brainfuck "sum chunks" for part 1](/day01_part1_sum_chunks.b)

[brainfuck "add 3 numbers"...](/day01_part2_sum3.b)

## Day 2

by hand in google docs/calculator

![part 1 ctrl-f for X, Y, Z, A X etc](/day02_part1.png)
![part 2 ctrl-f for A X, A Y, etc](/day02_part2.png)

## Day 3

### 3-1

in godot: pass the left half and right half of the background through each other, increasing the score whenever a collision happens. make a big explosion upon collision to remove duplicates

[godot project](/day03_part1/)

![part 1: lots of black boxes with letters, long orange rectangles and a score counter](/day03_part1_screenshot.png)

### 3-2

in python, code golfed to 95 bytes (loads a file called "3" in the same directory; there's a setup batch script to copy that from the inputs folder)

[python file](/day03_part2/day03_part2_95bytes.py)

## Day 4

### 4-1

work in progress: python + brainfuck

## Day 5

todo

## Day 6

by hand with pen + paper

![part 1: dots under the first many letters, column count and calculations on the side](/day06_part1.jpg)

![part 2: messy lines under letters in the middle, incorrect + correct calculations on the side](/day06_part2.jpg)

## Day 7

python (writing to/querying the filesystem, of course; only tested on windows)

[python code](/day07.py)

## Day 8

wip...

## Day 9

in (the rather nice, I think?) [noulith](https://github.com/betaveros/noulith) language by betaveros, the Advent of Code (current) #1 ranked user. [their webpage](https://beta.vero.site/) / [their github](https://github.com/betaveros/)

[part 1](/day09_part1.noul)

[part 2](/day09_part2.noul) which does act as a generalization of part 1, but also has slightly less clean code

## Day 10

in python and very boring, although at least I define sensible classes? [python code](/day10.py)

## Day 12

by hand with pen + paper

![day 12: areas to avoid blocked off, path highlighted, various tickmarks for counting the path length](/day12.jpg)

the right/finish section is navigating up a spiral of all letters, and I did this first, to get to d/e -- there is only one d/e area you can get to. I did this first, and it tells you where you have to aim for. the left/start section is just navagating a sea of c's; you can never drop into an a-hole because there are no b's to get back out. the route is super simple once you block off all the a's (ignore the part where I made a mistake...).

I had an off-by-two error which I fixed by going via z at the end, although the problem statement says that's the same elevation as the end point... I'm not sure how else I managed to create a shorter route :/

## Day 13

just plain python. trying to make it look easy since python *almost* solves this question out of the box, just not quite... [python code](/day13.py)

# Reverse Lookup

days by language / method / etc

## godot

- [day 3 part 1](#3-1)

## python + brainfuck

- [day 1](#day-1)
- [day 4 part 1](#4-1)

## python (gode colfed)

- [day 3 part 2](#3-2) 95 bytes

## just python...

- [day 7](#day-7) (+ filesystem!)
- [day 10](#day-10)
- [day 13](#day-13)

## noulith

this is the language [noulith](https://github.com/betaveros/noulith) written by betaveros, the Advent of Code (current) #1 ranked user. [their webpage](https://beta.vero.site/) / [their github](https://github.com/betaveros/)

- [day 9](#day-9)

## minimal computer assistance

- [day 2](#day-2) in google docs
- [day 6](#day-6) by hand with pen + paper
